-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand
about what are microservices, canary deployments.
And in this entire section we are also going to
do the canary deployment
of our applications in EKs cluster.
So let's start with, what are canary deployments?
Canaries means incremental roll outs in a simple form.
So with canaries the new version
of the application is slowly deployed to the Kubernetes
while getting a very small amount of live traffic.
So in our case we have the user management microservice
which is also calling a notification microservice,
for its use.
So now, so we are also going to introduce one more version
of notification microservice, which is V2,
and then also diverting some amount
of graphic to that.
So in short, a subset of live users are connecting
to that new version
while the rest are still using that previous version.
So if you see here 75%
of traffic coming to notification microservice V1 version
and 25% going to notification microservice V2 version.
So having both versions available
in production and then available
for the user subset of users is called canary deployments.
So once we feel that notification V2
is well and good and then it is performing well
and then if we want to cut over entire traffic
so we can move the hundred percent of traffic
to V2 version.
So using canaries we can detect deployment issues very early
while they effect only a small subset of users
if we encounter any issues
with the canary version of our deployment.
So in production environments we can quickly switch back
to our original production version immediately, right?
So all these options are available with canary deployments.
So once we perform our canary deployment
and then if we go back to our x-ray and then see it,
so it is going to look like this.
So from client as a user, when you access the request
it goes to user management microservice
and then it'll go, few traffic will go
to V1 notification microservice
and then few traffic will go
to V2 notification microservice.
So let's see that in GitHub repository
what we have planned for this entire section.
So we are in AWS EKS Kubernetes Masterclass
and we are entering our 14 microservices
canary deployment section, right?
So we already discussed about the use case, right?
So we are going to, from user management microservice
we are going to call both versions of notification
microservices, the use case,
and we can distribute our traffic to V1 and V2 based
on the number of replicas we configure on our
respective deployment file.
So notification service V1 will have one deployment
and then NS V2 will have one more deployment.
So example, if you configure four replicas
in NS V1 deployment file, which is nothing,
but let me open the visual studio code.
So in visual studio code you see
that we have something called notification deployment
and then V2 notification deployment.
So this is notification deployment V1 notification
microservice and this is V2 notification microservice.
In notification deployment if you say replicas two here
and then for V2 also two then, which is nothing,
but you are distributing the traffic 50%
to NS V2 version and then 50% to NS V1 version.
So like this, by altering the number of replicas
between two deployments you can have
the canary successfully implemented
without of the box in microservices.
So on Kubernetes, so out of the box
with whatever the availability we have
with basic deployments,
we can do it without using any external services.
Currently, not currently,
like we didn't deploy them on our Kubernetes cluster
like STO or AWS app measure or whatever it is.
Okay, so in our demo, so we are going to do it
with 50% traffic to NS V2
and then 50% traffic to NS V1.
So the list of docker images we are going to
use here is user management microservice,
the same one which is 3.0.0 AWS exhibit skill building,
and we are going to use notification microservice V1,
and this should be V2, I should update this.
V1 is going to be 3.0.0 AWS X-ray
and V2 is going to be 4.0.0 AWS X-ray.
So this completes the introduction part
of our microservices candidate deployments.
And for next lecture we'll focus on the prerequisites
for this respective section implementation.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.